# Haiku Depot Server - Usage Conditions

## Overview

The term Haiku Depot Server is abbreviated to HDS in this document.

HDS is a system for the curation of software-package meta-data relating to the open-source [Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org) operating system project.

This document covers information that will be of interest to users of the HDS system and forms conditions of use for both HDS itself and associated data.

### In Scope

Considered in this document are both the open-source software of the HDS system as well as the primary [production deployment](https://depot.haiku-os.org) of that software.

### Out of Scope

The following are considered to be explicitly out of scope for the purposes of this document;

* The HDS mailing list and any forums that may be used by users to communicate about HDS.  These communication channels are external to the project software and deployment.
* The package data stored in HDS is relayed from file or network-based Haiku Package Repository files (HPKR).  The HDS system does not take responsibility for the data that is present in the remote repositories.  HDS is simply reading and collating the data and is treating all data acquired in this way as public.
* The HDS project is closely coupled to the [Haiku operating system project](https://www.haiku-os.org), but user data relating to any other online or offline services of the larger Haiku project are not considered here.

## Application Logs

In order to support the operation of the HDS system and also for
diagnosis of issues, HDS will write out logs.  The logs may be
persisted for a **maximum of three months**.  The logs may contain
IP-addresses and other personal identifiable information. These logs
are only accessed by the administrators to review and diagnose system
errors, and to prevent abuse of our systems.

## User Data Handling and Usage

This section covers how data is handled in HDS with respect to its use, persistence and distribution from a user perspective.

### Browser

A Browser is a piece of software that can be run on a computing device in order to view and navigate web sites and web applications.  HDS provides a web application.

#### Tracking

HDS does not track browsing history and does not syndicate browsing behaviour with any third parties.

#### Cookies

HDS does not use Browser Cookie technology.

#### Local Storage

Local Storage is a mechanism that is available in some Browsers for a web page to programmatically store and later retrieve data.  Local Storage is able to persist between sessions of the Browser.

HDS can optionally use Local Storage for conveniently persisting some data for the user.  Use of a given Browser's Local Storage is optional and the user is required to opt-in to allowing HDS to use Local Storage.  The HDS system is functional without using Local Storage, but some aspects may not be as convenient.  The following are examples of data that may be stored in Local Storage as a result of using HDS from a Browser;

* The user's preferred natural language such as English, French or Russian --- this is convenient because the user does not need to re-select their preferred natural language each time they open a new HDS Browser window.
* If applicable, the user's current authentication information --- this is convenient because the authentication is then able, for a short time, to survive a Browser restart and is also able to be shared between tabs of the same Browser.
* Some user selections related to search --- this is convenient because the user does not need to re-select their preferred search criteria each time they open a new HDS Browser window.  An example of this would be the user's selection of which repositories they want to search within.

### User Identifiers

The user is identified in the system by a short piece of text called a nickname.  The nickname is intended to be used to identify a user publicly.  Two users are not able to have the same nickname at the same time.  The nickname may be presented together with user-generated content.  HDS will publicly display and redistribute users' nicknames.  The user nickname is public information.

The HDS system has no means of storing or working with real names.

The user may choose to store an email address with their account.  Users' stored email addresses are able to be used by HDS or administrators with public internet email services.  Some functions of the HDS system - such as being able to reset a user's password after a user has forgotten their password - will not be possible without the user having supplied their email address.  There is no facility in the HDS system intended for publicly publishing users' email addresses.

### Other User Data

The HDS system is able to store the following non-identifying information about a user.

* The user's preferred natural language; examples would be Polish, Japanese or Spanish.  This information is used, where possible, to display the HDS user interface in the language best suited to the user.
* A one-way hashed password used as part of the authentication mechanism.
* The date and time of the user's last authentication.  This can be used to determine if a user has been inactive for a period of time.
* The date and time at which the user agreed to a specific version of the user usage conditions.  As part of the agreement, the user may need to confirm that they are as old or older than some minimum age.  The minimum age forms part of the user usage conditions.
* Authorisation configuration may be stored for some users authorising them to perform certain functions in the HDS system that typical users are not able to perform.
* Password reset tokens may be stored for users as part of a mechanism for resetting user passwords.

### User Ratings and Comments

A user may provide ratings of their own creation in relation to packages within the HDS system.  The information provided with a rating, including any commentary, is intended to be distributed publicly; either directly or in aggregate form.  Any supplied rating is public information.

A user is able to delete a rating that they have provided in HDS at any time.  Deletion means that the data related to the rating is irrecoverably removed from the HDS system.  It is also possible to deactivate a rating in order that others are not able to see the rating, but in this case, the data is still stored in the HDS system.

Any provided comments that contain inappropriate text are subject to removal at a moderator's discretion.

### Supplying Content

Authored package content can be stored in the HDS system. Such content includes, but is not limited to:

* Icons
* Screenshots
* Categorizations
* Change-logs
* Prominences
* Localizations

Selected HDS users are authorized to provide such authored package content. Any authored package content provided is treated as "public domain" and is intended to be redistributed publicly. An authoring person should only provide such authored package content to the HDS system if they are able to do so as "public domain" legally.

As changes are made to authored package content, a permanent log records each change. This log is not intended to be exposed publicly. A record in this log will, where possible, contain an identifier for the authoring person.

The authoring person identifier stored in the log may relate to an HDS user or may identify an authoring person who is not a user of HDS. An example of where the authoring person may not be a user of HDS is when another system interacts with HDS to provide authored package content.

In the case that a user is deleted from the HDS system, the log will retain their authoring person identifier against the logged change.

## Inactive User Deletion

Users that have not authenticated with the Haiku Depot Server for a long period of time might be deleted from the system to avoid unnecessary storage of user data.  The nickname involved will then be available for other potential users.

## Contact

Haiku and HDS are community-run projects.  To make contact with the community around HDS, please use one of the following methods;

* The HDS [Mailing List](https://www.freelists.org/list/haiku-depot-web)
* The [Haiku Forums](https://discuss.haiku-os.org/)
