# Haiku Depot Server - Usage Conditions

## Data Handling and Usage

This section covers how data is handled in Haiku Depot Server (HDS) in terms of its use, persistence and distribution from a user perspective.

### Browser

A Browser is a piece of software that can be run on a computing device in order to view web sites and web applications.  HDS is a web application.  Browsers such as [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/) and [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) can be used to access HDS and as it does so, there is the opportunity for some data to be stored in the Browser.

#### Tracking

HDS does not use a form of tracking technology with third-parties.

#### Cookies

HDS does not use Browser Cookie technology.

#### Local Storage

Local Storage is a mechanism that is available in some Browsers for programmatically storing and later retrieving data in the Browser.  HDS can optionally use Local Storage for conveniently storing some data for the user.  Using the Browser's Local Storage is optional and the user is given the choice to allow or disallow HDS to use Local Storage.  The HDS system is functional without using Local Storage, but some aspects may not be as convenient; for example some user-preferences may not be stored across sessions.  The data that may be stored by HDS using Local Storage includes the following at the time of writing;

* The user's preferred natural language such as English, French or Russian.
* If applicable, the user's current authentication.  This is convenient because the authentication is then able, for a short time, to survive a Browser restart and is also able to be shared between tabs of the same Browser.
* Some user selections related to search.  For example, the user's selection of repositories.  This is more convenient because the user does not need to re-select their repositories each time they open a new HDS Browser window.

### User Identifiers

The user is identified in the system by a short piece of text called a nickname.  The nickname is intended to be used to identify a user publicly.  For example, the nickname may be presented together with user-generated content to identify the author of the content.  HDS will publicly display and redistribute users' nicknames.  The user nickname is public information.

The HDS system has no means of storing or working with real names.

The user may choose to store an email address with their account.  Some functions of the system  - such as being able to reset a user's password after a user has forgotten their password - will not be possible without the user having supplied their email address.  Communication between the administrators of HDS and users is not possible without the user having opted to supply an email address.  Users' email addresses are intended to be private to the user and the administrators of the HDS system.

### Other User Data

The HDS system will store the following non-identifying information about a user.

* The date and time of the user's last authentication
* The date and time at which the user agreed to user usage conditions
* An age that the user is older than for regulatory compliance purposes
* An identifier for the user usage conditions that the user agreed to

### User Ratings and Comments

A user may provide ratings of their own creation in relation to packages within the HDS system.  Such ratings may be created using the web interface or through use of a provided API.  The information provided with a rating including any commentary is intended to be distributed publicly; either directly or in aggregate form.

### Supplying Content

Selected users are able to provide content for the HDS system.  This includes, but is not limited to;

* Icons
* Screenshots
* Categorizations
* Change-logs
* Prominences
* Localizations

Such provided content data is assumed to be distributed as public domain.

## Disused User Deletion

At some point in the future, Users that have not used the Haiku Depot Server for a long period of time might be deleted from the system to avoid unnecessary storage of user data.  The nickname involved will then be available for other potential users.

## Communications

The HDS mailing list and any forums that may be used by users to communicate about HDS are considered out of scope in relation to this document.  These communication channels are external to the project software and deployment.

## Contact

Haiku and HDS are community-run projects.  To make contact with the community please use one of the following methods;

* The HDS [Mailing List](https://www.freelists.org/list/haiku-depot-web)
* The [Haiku Forums](https://discuss.haiku-os.org/)